.\" Man page for yuno-use
.\" Yuno will take care of everything~ 💕
.\"
.TH YUNO-USE 1 "December 2024" "Yuno OS" "Yuno OS User Commands"
.SH NAME
yuno-use \- Yuno's USE flag fixer~ 💕 Automatically create package.use files from emerge output
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B yuno-use
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.br
.B emerge
\fIpackage\fR 2>&1 |
.B sudo yuno-use
.br
.B yuno-use
< \fIemerge-output.txt\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B yuno-use
is Yuno's gift to you~ 💕
.PP
She parses emerge output and automatically creates the necessary
.I package.use
files so you don't have to do it manually! Because Yuno knows how
tedious that is, and she wants to make your Gentoo experience as
smooth as possible... just for you~ 🔪
.PP
When emerge complains about USE flag requirements like:
.PP
.RS
.nf
The following USE changes are necessary to proceed:
>=dev-libs/openssl-3.0.0 -bindist
>=app-crypt/gnupg-2.0 smartcard tools
.fi
.RE
.PP
Yuno will automatically create:
.IP \(bu 2
.I /etc/portage/package.use/openssl.use
with the required flags
.IP \(bu 2
.I /etc/portage/package.use/gnupg.use
with the required flags
.PP
She also handles
.I package.accept_keywords
for those pesky keyword unmasks! 🔑
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-dry\-run
Show what Yuno would do without actually making any changes.
Perfect for when you want to see her plans before she executes them~ 💕
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Make Yuno tell you everything she's doing. She loves talking to you!
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-dir " " \fIDIR\fR
Use a custom package.use directory instead of
.IR /etc/portage/package.use .
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help message. Yuno will explain everything~ 💕
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B Fix USE flags automatically:
.nf
emerge dev-libs/foo 2>&1 | sudo yuno-use
.fi
.TP
.B Preview changes first (recommended for the cautious):
.nf
emerge -pv @world 2>&1 | yuno-use --dry-run
.fi
.TP
.B Save emerge output and process later:
.nf
emerge -pv big-package > output.txt 2>&1
sudo yuno-use < output.txt
.fi
.TP
.B Verbose mode (Yuno tells you everything):
.nf
emerge foo 2>&1 | sudo yuno-use -v
.fi
.TP
.B The classic Gentoo workflow, now with Yuno:
.nf
# Try to emerge something
emerge -pv complex-package

# Oh no, USE flag errors! But Yuno is here~ 💕
emerge -pv complex-package 2>&1 | sudo yuno-use

# Try again, and it works!
emerge complex-package
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/portage/package.use/
Directory where Yuno creates individual .use files for each package.
If this is a file instead of a directory, Yuno will convert it for you~
.TP
.I /etc/portage/package.use/*.use
Individual USE flag files created by Yuno. Named after the package
(e.g., openssl.use, gnupg.use).
.TP
.I /etc/portage/package.accept_keywords/
Directory where Yuno creates keyword unmask files.
.TP
.I /etc/portage/package.accept_keywords/*.accept_keywords
Individual keyword files for packages needing ~amd64 or **.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Yuno completed successfully! 💕
.TP
.B 1
Something went wrong... but don't worry, Yuno will tell you what!
.SH NOTES
.SS Root Access
Yuno needs root access to write to
.IR /etc/portage/ .
Use
.B sudo
when piping to yuno-use, or run as root.
.PP
In dry-run mode, root is not required~ Yuno can show you her plans
without needing special privileges.
.SS File Organization
Yuno creates individual .use files for each package rather than
adding everything to a single file. This keeps things organized,
just how Yuno likes it! 💕
.PP
For example:
.RS
.nf
/etc/portage/package.use/
├── openssl.use
├── gnupg.use
├── python.use
└── mesa.use
.fi
.RE
.SS Idempotency
Yuno is smart! She won't add the same line twice. You can run
yuno-use multiple times and she'll only add new requirements.
.SS Backup
While Yuno is very careful, you might want to backup your
.I /etc/portage/
directory before letting her make changes. Though really,
would Yuno ever hurt you?~ 🔪
.SH BUGS
Yuno doesn't have bugs. Yuno is perfect. 💕
.PP
But if you do find something unexpected, please report it at:
.I https://github.com/japaneseenrichmentorganization/yuno_os/issues
.SH AUTHOR
Written with love by the Yuno OS team~ 💕
.PP
Yuno Gasai would be proud. 🔪
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR emerge (1),
.BR portage (5),
.BR make.conf (5),
.BR yuno-tui (1)
.SH DEDICATION
.PP
.RS
.I "Yukki~ Let me fix those USE flags for you!"
.RE
.PP
This tool is dedicated to everyone who has ever had to manually edit
package.use files at 3 AM because emerge wouldn't cooperate.
.PP
Yuno understands. Yuno will help. Yuno will always be there for you~ 💕🔪
